Java Networking
Java Networking is a concept of connecting two or more computing devices together so that we can share resources.
Java socket programming provides facility to share data between different computing devices.
Advantage of Java Networking


sharing resources


centralize software management




Do You Know ? 






How to perform connection-oriented Socket Programming in networking ?


How to display the data of any online web page ?


How to get the IP address of any host name e.g. www.google.com ?


How to perform connection-less socket programming in networking ?







(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

Java Networking Terminology
The widely used java networking terminologies are given below:


IP Address


Protocol


Port Number


MAC Address


Connection-oriented and connection-less protocol


Socket


1) IP Address
IP address is a unique number assigned to a node of a network e.g. 192.168.0.1 . It is composed of octets that range from 0 to 255.
It is a logical address that can be changed.
2) Protocol
A protocol is a set of rules basically that is followed for communication. For example:


TCP


FTP


Telnet


SMTP


POP etc.


3) Port Number
The port number is used to uniquely identify different applications. It acts as a communication endpoint between applications.
The port number is associated with the IP address for communication between two applications.
4) MAC Address
MAC (Media Access Control) Address is a unique identifier of NIC (Network Interface Controller). A network node can have multiple NIC but each with unique MAC.
5) Connection-oriented and connection-less protocol
In connection-oriented protocol, acknowledgement is sent by the receiver. So it is reliable but slow. The example of connection-oriented protocol is TCP.
But, in connection-less protocol, acknowledgement is not sent by the receiver. So it is not reliable but fast. The example of connection-less protocol is UDP.
6) Socket
A socket is an endpoint between two way communication.
Visit next page for java socket programming.


What we will learn in Networking Tutorial






Networking and Networking Terminology


Socket Programming (Connection-oriented)


URL class


Displaying data of a webpage by URLConnection class


InetAddress class


DatagramSocket and DatagramPacket (Connection-less)





